[Music]
as you know every week we invite
passionate collectors to come in here to
the studio and show off their
collections and tonight we meet Ross
Chapman hi Ross
now these have a bit of a reputation a
lot of people are really scared of
ventriloquist dummies were you over that
way I don't find them spooky at all my
first memory of a ventriloquist dummy
was as a child watching it on children's
television and so it was quite a
cheerful object and it was only as I got
older that I realized that there was
something sinister about them okay well
let's have a look at the whole
collection
[Music]
hi I'm Rose and this is Michael and this
is my obsession
I first became obsessed with
ventriloquist dolls as a child watching
Chris Kirby and Terry
I never had any childhood ambition to be
a ventriloquist the joy of it was
actually in collecting the dummies
themselves rather than aspiring to to go
on stage there's something X murderous
about ventriloquist dummies and I just
love them
[Applause]
there are two types of dummies this is
Tommy talker he's from Canada and he's a
child to toy rather than a character
excuse me Michael
this is a professional one and so it has
a stick mechanism and so this controls
the mouth and then there's a lever at
the back which controls the eyes some
dummies to have such an arrangement of
levers that you wonder how the
ventriloquist could actually concentrate
some of them have up to seven or eight
levers and you've only got five fingers
[Music]
this is the oldest one I've got and he's
also my favorite he has weakness and he
has a gossip mouth which makes him look
more realistic
this is Howdy Doody who was fairly well
known in an American television show
it's Howdy Doody time and these are
three different versions of him
this is the earliest one usually the
earlier versions of each character are
the most realistic and the ones that
appeal to me most
[Music]
there's something Alice Cooper Twilight
Zone about venture customers that
appeals to something twisted in my in my
psyche
I don't know how you sleep at night we
certainly haven't improved the image of
ventriloquist dummies through that piece
but getting to the dummy you've got with
you this one's particularly special yes
this is Charlie McCarthy and he became
famous on the radio he was in vaudeville
before that and they made movies he
guest appeared on so many programs even
The Muppet Show this was obviously
produced as a fairly expensive toy in
the 1930s are they getting harder to
find and they were always hard to find
simply because there's not that many
people that collect them which is part
of the appeal for me well that drives up
the value doesn't it go exactly I mean
I've been a dealer for 35 years I don't
think I've ever seen a ventriloquist
dummy you know in a box or anything like
that
what's so money anyway well this little
guy's worth about seven hundred and
fifty dollars Wow
but that is because he is an old one
proper professional one what would they
be worth um anything up to two and a
half thousand dollars so Adrian a lot of
people agree that these are scary but
you can't put your finger on why exactly
they are that's scary to us their zombie
creatures they are dead and alive at the
same time and that is a freaky idea I
mean dolls were put in tombs by the
Egyptians they've been used in a variety
of ways they're used in voodoo so
there's a long history though and and
the character that they take on I mean
that has a history to court jesters he
could be irreverent towards the king as
through the stick and he was the only
person in the court that could be and
it's that saying the reference that
these dummies take on isn't it it there
they're quite naughty I can get away
with things that others can't
yeah it makes the unsayable saleable and
that's scary to people yeah and Ross a
lot of venture that was are very
attached to their dolls I've actually
heard a story of an Australian
ventriloquist and correct me if I'm
wrong that actually was buried with the
dead doll he had it written in his will
if he wanted to be buried with his Tommy
and Charlie McCarthy was actually will
to this mr.
Institute so a lot of them do end up in
museums well thank you for coming in and
showing us through your collection and
welcome good luck with it now it's time
to prove that our panel are no dummies
themselves remember the myth